DOCKER Course
Yuotube URL ---https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MD7zrG7M8_k&list=RDCMUCObs0kLIrDjX2LLSybqNaEA&index=1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0SS6bJczlgs
Great learning

Docker hub login
bkmohanty
Basant1986@

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/docker/building_docker_files.htm

https://dockerlabs.collabnix.com/docker/cheatsheet/

1. docker search
We can use the command docker search to search for public images on the Docker hub. It will return information about the image name, description, stars, official and automated.

docker search MySQL
If you prefer a GUI-based search option, use the Docker Hub website.

2. docker pull
Now that we know the name of the image, we can pull that from the Docker hub using the command docker pull. Here, we are setting the platform option as well.

docker pull --platform linux/x86_64 mysql
Tags are used to identify images inside a repository. If we don’t specify a tag Docker engine uses the :latest tag by default. So, in the previous example, Docker pulled the mysql:latest image.

If our application depends on a specific version of an image, we can specify that using a tag name.

docker pull --platform linux/arm64/v8 mysql:5.6
Since we can have multiple images under one repository, we can pull all the images using the --all-tags option. The following command will pull all the images from the mysql repository.

docker pull --all-tags mysql
3. docker images
Brilliant, now we should have some images in our local machine, and to confirm, let’s run the following command to list all the local images.

docker images

docker images
In my case, I have two images that we downloaded in the previous step.

4. docker run
Alright, now that we have some images, we can try to create a container. Here we used the --env option to set a mandatory environment variable and --detach option to run the container in the background.

docker run --env MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-secret-pw --detach mysql
Moreover, we can use the --name option to assign a name to the container. Docker will randomly assign a name if we don’t provide one.

5. docker ps
We can list all the running containers by using the following command.

docker ps

How about listing all the containers, including stopped once? We can do that by adding --all option.

docker ps --all

6. docker stop
To stop a container, use the docker stop command with either the container id or container name. We may stop a container if we want to change our docker run command.

docker stop f8c52bedeecc
7. docker restart
Let’s restart our stopped contained by using the following command. We may want to use this after we reboot our machine.

docker restart f8c52bedeecc
8. docker rename
Now, let’s change the container name from compassionate_fermi to test_db. We may want to change the name to keep track of our containers more easily.

docker rename compassionate_fermi test_db
9. docker exec
Access the running container test_db by running the following command. It’s helpful if we want to access the MySQL command line and execute MySQL queries.

docker exec -it test_db bash
mysql -uroot -pmy-secret-pw
SHOW DATABASES;
The -i and -t options are used to access the container in an interactive mode. Then we provide the name of the container we want to access, which in this case test_db. Finally, the bash command is used to get a bash shell inside the container.

10. docker logs
This command is helpful to debug our Docker containers. It will fetch logs from a specified container.

docker logs test_db
If we want to continue to stream new output, we can use the option -follow.

docker logs -follow test_db
11. docker rm
In case we want to remove a container, we can use the following command.

docker rm test_db
You may encounter an error like

Error response from daemon: You cannot remove a running container ……… Stop the container before attempting removal or force remove

As it recommends, we can stop the container first and then remove it or use option -f to remove a running container forcefully.

docker stop test_db
docker rm test_db
# or
docker rm -f test_db
12. docker rmi
Finally, if we want to free some disk space, we can use the docker rmi command with the image id to remove an image.

docker rmi eb0e825dc3cf
These commands come with plenty of helpful options. If you want to know about other available options, run the docker command_name --help command. For example:

docker logs --help
I use Docker almost every day for open-source development. It allows others to contribute to the project easily without worrying about how to run the project. I hope these 12 Docker commands will help you get started with Docker. If you like to know more about Docker, then check the articles below. Happy coding!

13. Install vim, yum in a docker container use below commands
docker exec -u root -it mycontainer bash
*then install vim (or what you need) with

	

Management Commands:
  builder     Manage builds
  config      Manage Docker configs
  container   Manage containers
  context     Manage contexts
  image       Manage images
  manifest    Manage Docker image manifests and manifest lists
  network     Manage networks
  node        Manage Swarm nodes
  plugin      Manage plugins
  secret      Manage Docker secrets
  service     Manage services
  stack       Manage Docker stacks
  swarm       Manage Swarm
  system      Manage Docker
  trust       Manage trust on Docker images
  volume      Manage volumes

Commands:
  attach      Attach local standard input, output, and error streams to a running container
  build       Build an image from a Dockerfile
  commit      Create a new image from a container's changes
  cp          Copy files/folders between a container and the local filesystem
  create      Create a new container
  diff        Inspect changes to files or directories on a container's filesystem
  events      Get real time events from the server
  exec        Run a command in a running container
  export      Export a container's filesystem as a tar archive
  history     Show the history of an image
  images      List images
  import      Import the contents from a tarball to create a filesystem image
  info        Display system-wide information
  inspect     Return low-level information on Docker objects
  kill        Kill one or more running containers
  load        Load an image from a tar archive or STDIN
  login       Log in to a Docker registry
  logout      Log out from a Docker registry
  logs        Fetch the logs of a container
  pause       Pause all processes within one or more containers
  port        List port mappings or a specific mapping for the container
  ps          List containers
  pull        Pull an image or a repository from a registry
  push        Push an image or a repository to a registry
  rename      Rename a container
  restart     Restart one or more containers
  rm          Remove one or more containers
  rmi         Remove one or more images
  run         Run a command in a new container
  save        Save one or more images to a tar archive (streamed to STDOUT by default)
  search      Search the Docker Hub for images
  start       Start one or more stopped containers
  stats       Display a live stream of container(s) resource usage statistics
  stop        Stop one or more running containers
  tag         Create a tag TARGET_IMAGE that refers to SOURCE_IMAGE
  top         Display the running processes of a container
  unpause     Unpause all processes within one or more containers
  update      Update configuration of one or more containers
  version     Show the Docker version information
  wait        Block until one or more containers stop, then print their exit codes


14. Three types of volum mount in docker
volume mount ------ which is intract with docker container
bind mount --------whic we can mount with local files/folders
tmpfs mount -------- temoprary mount which is store in memory (use and through)

15.Network drivers🔗
Docker’s networking subsystem is pluggable, using drivers. Several drivers exist by default, and provide core networking functionality:

bridge: The default network driver. If you don’t specify a driver, this is the type of network you are creating. Bridge networks are usually used when your applications run in standalone containers that need to communicate. See bridge networks.

host: For standalone containers, remove network isolation between the container and the Docker host, and use the host’s networking directly. See use the host network.

overlay: Overlay networks connect multiple Docker daemons together and enable swarm services to communicate with each other. You can also use overlay networks to facilitate communication between a swarm service and a standalone container, or between two standalone containers on different Docker daemons. This strategy removes the need to do OS-level routing between these containers. See overlay networks.

ipvlan: IPvlan networks give users total control over both IPv4 and IPv6 addressing. The VLAN driver builds on top of that in giving operators complete control of layer 2 VLAN tagging and even IPvlan L3 routing for users interested in underlay network integration. See IPvlan networks.

macvlan: Macvlan networks allow you to assign a MAC address to a container, making it appear as a physical device on your network. The Docker daemon routes traffic to containers by their MAC addresses. Using the macvlan driver is sometimes the best choice when dealing with legacy applications that expect to be directly connected to the physical network, rather than routed through the Docker host’s network stack. See Macvlan networks.

none: For this container, disable all networking. Usually used in conjunction with a custom network driver. none is not available for swarm services. See disable container networking.

Network plugins: You can install and use third-party network plugins with Docker. These plugins are available from Docker Hub or from third-party vendors. See the vendor’s documentation for installing and using a given network plugin.
